So hang in there.
Our game is almost ready.
We can shoot our enemy and make it disappear.
But there's only one which makes it a bit boring to add multiple enemies.
We're going to employ a specific method.
If we followed the basic rules of object orientated programming, we'd need to create classes for our
enemies as well as many instances of those enemies.
In this case, it's important to know how PI game works.
And so we're going to do this by using a simpler method.
We'll create our enemies with a list, and to do so, we'll select all the variables of our enemy and
duplicate them.
And we'll convert everything that's inside the first group of variables to empty lists.
So I'll copy and paste square brackets, and these variables now have empty lists.
The last one.
And now I'm going to add one more variable to the first group which will be number of enemies and lets
enter eight enemies.
In my opinion it's enough.
Now, instead of directly creating these variables and their information, we'll create a four loop
that completes each list with eight enemy registers.
So for each enemy in the range of number of enemies, let's indent all of this so that it is inside
the four loop.
And instead of generating code for these variables, taking advantage of the fact that these are list
names will apply the append method and we'll add to the list the information we had for the variable.
So I'll copy this and append and dot so as to add to each variable.
Let's not forget the closing bracket, of course.
So here we have a code.
Once the program is executed, this code generates empty lists, enemies and a for loop that iterates
over all those lists as many times as the number of enemies we want to create.
In each iteration, we created eight indexes in each variable.
The first index of each list corresponds to enemy one, and the second index corresponds to enemy two
and so on.
So now we have to make sure that inside the game loop, our program identifies which enemy is being
executed according to the tasks it's carrying out, like moving to the left, disappearing, etc. Now
we have many enemies and as you can see, this doesn't specify the enemy whose behavior is being modified.
So we'll need another for loop before this modification and for each enemy in the range of number of
enemies.
What will happen?
Let's indent this first.
Well, in each enemy variable, we have to add the e m index.
That is the index present in each iteration.
So let's copy this brackets containing e and M and add it to each enemy variable.
Let's select this block of code that modifies the movements and indent.
It enters the loop and we'll paste the index in each variable.
As a result, our code will move the correct enemy one by one.
All right.
We also have to manipulate everything that's related to the collisions because there's enemy data as
well, and we need to know which enemy is colliding and which isn't.
So inside the same for loop will paste the collision.
So make sure that everything is indented at this level.
This line inside the loop will add brackets and the end m index here.
So let's do it with all the enemy variables, not the bullet ones.
So here.
Here.
Neither here nor there.
No.
And here.
I think that's all.
And there's one place missing, which is where we make the call to our enemy.
We'll copy it and paste it inside the loop.
We should add the brackets again and again.
And here we should create a third parameter, which is E and M why?
This parameter isn't present in the function definition.
So let's go to the enemy definition and add the third parameter.
We won't write in M because it's a name that already exists.
So we'll put E n for enemy and we'll create the enemy image that corresponds to N in brackets.
Now this code will know that the images it has to execute every time the function is called are different.
So we can see in this call, each of those images will correspond to the enemy that's being called in
each iteration of our loop.
So this should be working.
So let's execute it.
Here they are, and we're about to shoot.
So let's see if we can shoot one.
Great.
So when we shoot, it disappears.
Another one appears, which means that we're going to get killed.
So there are too many enemies now.
So maybe I should have entered five or six.
Okay, wait.
Let's kill the ones below.
I'm sorry I got carried away.
So the fact is that the score is updated here as I kill my enemies.
And I think it would be better if the score appeared inside the screen and not inside the console.
So we're going to go do that.
And we're also going to program the main character's death, our game over in our next lesson.
So I'll see you there.